JOHANNESBURG - The National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) is calling on President Jacob Zuma to resign. It also wants the SABC board dissolved, and National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams replaced. READ: Zuma's brother urges him to resign "Whilst monopoly capital remains the fundamental enemy of the working class and NDR, the NEC was unanimous in its condemnation of factionalism within the ANC which is driven by what has become the immediate enemy of the working class and NDR, namely the parasitic bourgeoisie. "The NEC also condemns the manipulation and use of state organs for a narrow factional agenda. "In this regard, Nehawu calls on the SABC Board to be dissolved and for NPA head Shaun Abrahams to be relieved of his duties because of his lack of fitness to hold office," a statement from the union read. READ: Parly says notice of Nehawu meeting 'unmasks political agenda' Nehawu said while Zuma's role in the struggle was well known, the revolution under his watch has taken a disastrous turn. "Everything considered, including the deepening socio-economic crisis, lack of strategic oversight and leadership in government, declining hope amongst our people and the ever swirling scandalous revelations of corruption, the NEC has come to a conclusion that it can no longer be denied that the leadership of President Jacob Zuma in government is now untenable. "Whilst we believe that no single individual, even as President of the country, can be solely responsible for all the socioeconomic and political ills in our society and whilst we appreciate that Comrade Jacob Zuma has served our struggle well over the years, the organised working class cannot stand idle by and be silent when it is clear that the revolution is taking a disastrous trajectory as it needlessly lurches from crisis to crisis," they asserted. Nehawu said if Zuma resigned now, he would be neither president of the republic nor ANC leader come the 2019 general elections. Nehawu added that the governing party should allow Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, to take over from Zuma. "In this regard, the NEC calls on the ANC to invoke the precedent practice whereby the current Deputy President Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa would succeed Comrade Jacob Zuma. "We are making this call whilst being painfully conscious of the poisoned climate of factional contestation within the ANC that would make it difficult for the ANC to arrive at a broadly supported solution to the current tragic impasse. "Nonetheless, as Nehawu, we expect the ANC and President Jacob Zuma to rise to the occasion in the interests of the ANC and the masses of our people." the Nehawu NEC statement declared. eNCA