JOHANNESBURG - Eskom has clashed with Glencore following claims from the company that it did not attempt to raise its prices to R530 per tonne of coal. Glencore refuted Eskom’s statement that it tried to save its former subsidiary Optimum Coal Mine. The public protector's State of Capture report shows that the power utility might have prejudiced Glencore by refusing to sign a new coal supply agreement with Optimum.
	
	In a statement, Glencore claims it was supplying Eskom at well below its cost of production. The commodity trading and mining group says it then tried to renegotiate the purchase price. READ: Eskom favoured Guptas, Madonsela found Optimum’s last offer was R300 per tonne and not R530 per tonne as was claimed but, Eskom rejected this and terminated negotiations, forcing Optimum into business rescue. Eskom previously sought R2-billion in penalties from Optimum because of reported poor quality supply of coal which the mining subsidiary denied. The power utility then awarded the contract to Gupta owned mining company Tegeta. Eskom released a statement on Sunday disputed the claims made by Optimum saying, "the recent media reports that quoted Glencore as vehemently denying that it had ever proposed coal price increases of more than R300 per ton to Eskom cannot go unchallenged. It is unfortunate that Glencore has suggested that Eskom has lied about Optimum Coal Mine wanting to increase the coal prices to R570 per tonne." The energy provider detailed letters exchanged between the companies in their statements; substantiating their point of view that Glencore lied. "Eskom was not involved in the sale agreement between Glencore and Tegeta. All Eskom was interested in was to ensure that the new owners were aware that the coal prices, volumes and quality would not be renegotiated or compromised, and that the penalties imposed on Optimum would not be waivered. "Nothing has changed since then even though Optimum Coal Mine is under new management," the statement read. Deutsche Bank distanced itself from Eskom’s claim that it had "support and backing" from the lender. In a statement, the power utility said: "Eskom welcomes the support and backing it is receiving from international lenders like the Deutsche Bank, as well as professional bodies such as the Progressive Professionals Forum, who have come out in support of the stance taken by Eskom on its dealings with suppliers, as well as the role it plays in the transformation of the coal industry." Deutsche Bank expressed its confidence in Eskom’s management and the way it handled the Tegeta coal contracts issue, the Eskom statement read. It quoted the bank as saying: "We believe Eskom's management has presented a strong case and the underlying transactions were seemingly in compliance with all internal and external requirements and were carried out keeping in mind the best interest of the company, investors and shareholders." The bank declined to comment on the claim of support released by Eskom. eNCA