PARLIAMENT – DA leader Mmusi Maimane strongly urged members of the ANC to vote "yes" in the no confidence motion against President Jacob Zuma in Parliament on Thursday. “A vote against this motion is a vote for state capture,” said Maimane. Maimane said that the motion of no confidence debate in Parliament was an opportunity for all members of Parliament to put South Africa first. “I know there are men and women in the ANC benches who want to do the right thing today. “When we make this choice we must remember that whatever party we represent here, we are all members of team South Africa,” he said. Maimane says it's time to choose between Zuma and the country. The opposition brought the motion of no confidence against the president following last week’s release of the Public Protector’s State of Capture report into alleged influence of the Gupta family over the appointment of cabinet ministers. Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane leapt to Zuma's defence, saying the DA leader of promoting the interests of white people. The minister said the DA is “using a black face to protect the interests of the white minority”, she said. The State of Capture report highlighted Eskom’s coal contracts with the Gupta-owned Tegeta resources. Mokonyane said there has been a “glaring misrepresentation of the facts”, and implied that awarding contracts to the Gupta family was acceptable because foreigners were currently benefitting from Eskom’s contracts. “Eskom spends R40-billion on coal annually, largely on four companies. The people who control them have owned them for 40 years. The contracts come to an end in 2020 and many of the owners of these companies don’t live in South Africa,” she said. The EFF's deputy leader, Floyd Shivambu countered that Mokonyane was one of the "top acts" at the “Saxonwold shebeen” in another reference to the Public Protector’s report. WATCH: Where in the world is the Saxonwold shebeen? Shivambu called Zuma a “political post-colonial disaster” and said his party would use every opportunity that arises to remove him from office. He criticised the ANC for not acting internally against Zuma. “We believe that the liberation movement itself should have found it in its own conscience to act against the president,” he said. eNCA