JOHANNESBURG – Eskom CEO Brian Molefe’s resignation must be applauded as “courageous and principled”, the National African Federated Chamber of Commerce (Nafcoc) said on Saturday. “Nafcoc noted with great sadness the sudden resignation of Brian Molefe… the illustrious chief executive officer of Eskom,” Nafcoc said in a statement. While Nafcoc understood that the events of the past week may have had some bearing on Molefe’s decision, this decision should be respected and the fact acknowledged that it was taken in the best interests of the institution. “In this respect Mr Molefe[‘s] decision should applauded as courageous and principled,” Nafcoc said. MOST READ: I have done nothing wrong, says Brian Molefe as he steps down Molefe resigned as Eskom CEO on Friday in the wake of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report on state capture which contained damning details of Molefe’s relationship with the wealthy and politically-connected Gupta family. In the report, Madonsela made several determinations, including that President Jacob Zuma appoint within 30 days a commission of inquiry headed by a judge solely selected by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. Nafcoc said Molefe had distinguished himself both as a champion and activist of black economic empowerment during his tenure at the Public Investment Corporation (PIC). “After that he proved himself as an effective leader at the helm of Transnet and succeeded in putting to rest the myth that blacks are incapable of managing the multi-billion organisations and still succeed.” His departure from Eskom at a time when confidence was returning to the security of energy supply and “globally admirable progress” was made regarding the renewable energy program was regrettable, Nafcoc said. Molefe’s resignation served to indicate “the fragility of our transformation project which when faced with crises often result in the premature attrition of the black leadership talent and erosion of its critical mass”. “We… at the same time deplore the vindictive and vengeful calls by some neo-apartheid political parties and detractors who are calling for [the] criminalisation of Mr Molefe before [a] properly constituted investigation. We believe these elements are motivated more by perpetuating the narrative of black failure and incompetence rather than commitment to reconstruction and transformation,” the Nafcoc statement said. African News Agency