PIETERMARITZBURG - ANC President Jacob Zuma told the party's KwaZulu-Natal cadres forum on Friday that criticism of him will only serve to strengthen him. “When people are sitting in government, there are issues that will arise because of how they govern. People will have different opinions and as a result, some of these governments become dismantled. Others change their course. Even people who fought together in the trenches become enemies. When those issues arise, they test your character," Zuma said to a packed Pietermaritzburg city hall. READ: ANC veteran Zola Skweyiya calls for Zuma's resignation Zuma stressed that the ANC would never be like other liberation movements that fizzle out after 20 years, saying the party always adapts to change. International institutions like the ICC and IMF also came under the president's attack, saying that political power without economic power, is meaningless. "The political power has reached a point where if it does not have the control of the economy, it’s going to be undermined by those who are controlling the economy.That's where we are right now." The president's leadership has come under fire with some senior members within the ANC asking Zuma to "listen to his conscience". Gwede Mantashe said the ANC was unable to recall President Zuma, but if the people were calling on him to step down, it was "an appeal to his conscience". ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu also called on leaders to take collective responsibility for the party's poor performance during the local government elections in August. WATCH: 'Everybody must step down, including President Zuma' - Mthembu In the wake of what seems to be a crisis within the governing party, the ANC has dismissed calls for an early elective conference, insisting it will only happen as planned in December 2017. After the urgent release of the State of Capture report, Zuma has made his first public appearance in South Africa in eDumbe, KZN, where the party took control of the municipality for the first time after the recent elections. eNCA