LONDON – The Springboks have made several changes for the important opening Test of the Castle Lager Outgoing Tour against England at Twickenham in London on Saturday afternoon. Only five players who started in the 31-31 draw against the Barbarians last week at Wembley were again included in a much-changed line-up for the test against the English. They are Beast Mtawarira (prop), Pieter-Steph du Toit (flank), Rudy Paige (scrumhalf), Pat Lambie (flyhalf) and Francois Venter (outside centre). Venter will make his test debut on Saturday following his good showing last week at Wembley and his centre partner is Damian de Allende, who will win his 21st cap for the Springboks. READ: SA Rugby 'rotten': 1995 World Cup hero The injury to Roelof Smit and a host of other flankers, as well as the unavailability of other experienced loose forwards, meant Springbok coach Allister Coetzee was forced into revamping his loose trio. The Bok coach decided to move Du Toit from the second row to the side of the scrum, a position he is familiar with, as he will bring much-needed ball carrying ability and more line-out options. The experienced Willem Alberts will start on the other side of the scrum, while Warren Whiteley retains the No 8 jersey he wore throughout the Castle Lager Rugby Championship. Du Toit’s positional switch means a return to the starting team for Lood de Jager, who sat out the Barbarians fixture because of a one-match suspension. In the front row, hooker Adriaan Strauss returns to action and he takes over the captaincy from Patrick Lambie who led the side at Wembley. Vincent Koch will play at tighthead prop and Lourens Adriaanse moves to the bench. The halfback combination of Paige and Lambie are kept unchanged. Wing JP Pietersen returns to the side and will wear the No 11 jersey, the position he usually plays for his club side, the Leicester Tigers. Bryan Habana has shown significant improvement this week, however, he is not yet 100 percent ready and it was decided not to risk him with two more Tests to come on the tour. Ruan Combrinck will do duty on the right wing, and Willie le Roux at fullback, which means a return to the back three that played in the three-Test series against Ireland in June. Coetzee said the number of injuries, and to players in specific positions, gave him the opportunity to test certain new combinations. “We are going to use this tour also to test various combinations and rotate players to ensure we move in the right direction,” said Coetzee. “The challenge this week will definitely start up front as the English pack paved the way for their series win over the Wallabies in Australia. It will be a physical challenge and the set-piece battle could prove to be decisive. “I believe we have selected the best available team for this Saturday. We have a long list of injured loose forwards, with all of Roelof Smit, Marcell Coetzee, Francois Louw, Jaco Kriel, Siya Kolisi and Sikumbuzo Notshe injured, while a couple are also unavailable for selection,” explained Coetzee. Coetzee said a daunting task awaits his side on Saturday at Twickenham: “England have a lot of belief at the moment – they have won their last nine matches since the appointment of Eddie Jones as coach. “They are always formidable at Twickenham and matches involving our two countries have always delivered close fought encounters. They are an extremely well-coached side with no apparent weaknesses and their away series win in Australia proved why they are currently second in the world rankings. “They are definite favourites, but we are looking forward to another huge battle against them,” said Coetzee. Captain Strauss will lead the Springboks for the tenth consecutive Test match, while lock Eben Etzebeth will play in his 31st consecutive Test for the Springboks. The Springbok team to face England at Twickenham: 15. Willie le Roux (Canon Eagles (Japan), 39 caps, 45 points
	14. Ruan Combrinck (Xerox Golden Lions), 4 caps, 13 points
	13. Francois Venter (Toyota Free State Cheetahs), uncapped
	12. Damian de Allende (DHL Western Province), 20 caps, 10 points
	11. JP Pietersen (Leicester Tigers (England)), 69 caps, 120 points
	10. Patrick Lambie (vice-captain) (Cell C Sharks), 53 caps, 137 points
	9. Rudy Paige (Vodacom Blue Bulls), 5 caps, 0 points
	8. Warren Whiteley (Docomo Red Hurricanes (Japan)), 12 caps, 15 points
	7. Pieter-Steph du Toit (DHL Western Province), 17 caps, 15 points
	6. Willem Alberts (Stade Francais (France)), 41 caps, 35 points
	5. Lood de Jager (Vodacom Blue Bulls), 25 caps, 20 points
	4. Eben Etzebeth (DHL Western Province), 53 caps, 10 points
	3. Vincent Koch (Saracens (England)), 7 caps, 0 points
	2. Adriaan Strauss (captain) (Vodacom Blue Bulls), 63 caps, 30 points
	1. Tendai Mtawarira (Cell C Sharks), 84 caps, 10 points
	Replacements
	16. Bongi Mbonambi (DHL Western Province), 3 caps, 0 points
	17. Steven Kitshoff (Bordeaux (France)), 7 caps, 0 points
	18. Lourens Adriaanse (Cell C Sharks), 4 caps, 0 points
	19. Franco Mostert (Ricoh Black Rams (Japan)), 4 caps, 0 points
	20. Nizaam Carr (DHL Western Province), 2 caps, 0 points
	21. Faf de Klerk (Xerox Golden Lions), 8 caps, 0 points
	22. Johan Goosen (Racing 92 (France)), 10 caps, 20 points
	23. Lionel Mapoe (Kubota Spears (Japan)), 9 caps, 0 points African News Agency