JOHANNESBURG – Gareth Cliff has been trending on Twitter again, and here's why. The Sunday Times reported that the media personality admitted in his autobiography that he 'spiked' former Idols Judge and colleague Mara Louw's drink with vodka in 2010, prior to an incident  where she was slurring, swearing and appeared confused on air. At the time Louw was on heavy pain medication which prohibits alcohol. The incident cost Louw her job and reportedly her reputation as well. This is how Cliff responded to Twitter mobs on Sunday: Cliff has been at the centre of controversy for expressing what some called strident views with regard to South Africa's turbulent socio-political climate. The Cliff Central founder has made several changes in his colourful career: 2003 In the same year that Cliff took up a position at M-Net as an Idols judge, he joined SABC’s radio station 5FM and embarked on a journey that was marked by much controversy. 2004 A year into his career as a talk show host with 5FM, Cliff was suspended for 2 days by the SABC after a complaint was laid with the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of South Africa (BCCSA). The complainant argued that he had contravened a code of protecting religious freedom with regard to an interview he'd conducted with ‘Jesus’ on his show. 2009 He was given his own show on M-Net, The Gareth Cliff Show, which premiered September 2009, but the show only lasted 13 episodes and was not renewed for a second season. 2014 Cliff was both loved and loathed for his weekday breakfast radio talk show, which lasted just over 10 years. He and his entire team left in 2014 by his own accord, stating, “After two suspensions and several close-shaves, dozens of BCCSA complaints and almost as many management changes at the SABC, it’s time to get unhinged.” He then created his own live streaming website and started his own internet radio show called Cliff Central. Comedy Central later contracted him, to film the radio show and broadcast the in-studio live sessions on television in a show also called The Gareth Cliff Show – the same name as his previous M-Net attempt. Comedy Central canned the show a month and a half after it was launched, reportedly due to insufficient viewership. 2016 In early January, M-Net fired Cliff from his job as Idols judge after he spoke out in defence of freedom of speech following the reaction to former estate agent Penny Sparrow’s racist remarks in which she referred to black people as "monkeys." Later that month, High Court Judge Caroline Nicholls ordered that M-Net reinstate Cliff as Idols judge and pay the cost of his court application. Cliff continued in his post for most of 2016 and on 14 November he handed in his resignation. The former Idols judge is set to release his book later this week. eNCA