JOHANNESBURG – The EFF on Sunday called on President Jacob Zuma and SAA board chairwoman Dudu Myeni to report corruption or face charges for failure to do so. EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said Zuma had addressed an ANC cadres forum in Pietermaritzburg on Friday night, where he had claimed, “those are the thieves and I know they are stealing. I’m just watching them. I know them”. On Wednesday, addressing Parliament’s portfolio committee on public enterprises, Myeni also claimed she knew who was corrupt and stealing public funds. READ: DA to lay criminal charges against Zuma “Our law is very clear that if you are aware of crime you must report it, including corruption,” Ndlozi said. “Thus, Jacob Zuma and Dudu Myeni must immediately report the persons who are stealing public funds. Otherwise, the EFF will lay charges against them for knowing of crime and not reporting it. Being at the helm of important institutions they should know the urgency of protecting public funds, securing the rule of law, and the public purse. “Zuma in particular, who faces hundreds of allegations of corruption, must make sure to come out as soon as possible or suffer another charge of knowing about crime and not reporting it. This will unnecessarily increase his woes; he can therefore simply avoid an additional charge by reporting those persons to the police and submit any evidence or information that will help lead to their conviction,” Ndlozi said. The damage to public institutions caused by corruption had reached untenable levels and this was “caused by those, like Zuma and Myeni, who keep silent at the face of corruption (sic)”. “Their silence is complicity of their highest order, taken their status in our society. Above all, their proud public pronouncement of knowledge of criminality, yet not reporting it, further perpetuates distrust in our institutions of law and order. How can ordinary South Africans develop confidence in reporting crimes when a head of state publicly confesses to know of crimes and does not report them? “This makes a culture out of not reporting crimes and in turn, promotes criminality. To combat this, Zuma and Myeni must immediately report to the police or face charges themselves for not reporting crimes of corruption they are aware of,” Ndlozi said. Earlier on Sunday, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Zuma had a legal obligation to report to the law enforcement authorities those who he knew to be engaged in criminal behaviour, and if he did not do so he was undermining the fight against corruption. If Zuma was to be believed, he was enjoined by section 34(1) and (2) of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act to report “those who are stealing” to the SAPS. “For President Zuma to hold onto this information for political reasons undermines the fight against corruption and it makes him an accessory to crime,” Maimane said. “On Tuesday, November 15, 2016, I laid charges (CAS 70/11/2016) against President Zuma in terms of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act; I will therefore ask the SAPS to widen their investigation in order to investigate those people known by the president to be stealing.” Maimane said it was irresponsible and illegal for the president to not take such information to the prosecuting authorities, but it came as "no surprise", as the president showed little understanding of the negative impact of corruption. "This was the same man who once argued that corruption was a 'Western paradigm' crime where there were 'no victims'," he said. “The Democratic Alliance will continue to fight against corruption and those who engage in this most heinous of acts, which robs the people of opportunities,” Maimane added. On Friday night, a defiant Zuma told ANC supporters at the forum that he was not a thief but knew those who were fleecing state coffers. “The truth is I am not a thief and there is no evidence to support this claim. The truth is those who are accusing me of stealing are the ones who are enriching themselves through theft. I know who they are,” he claimed. African News Agency