JOHANNESBURG – The Gauteng Weather Service warned of severe thunderstorms in the province on Thursday, predicting heavy rain and hail in the afternoon. ALERT: The SA Weather Service has issued a watch for severe T-storms in Gauteng on Thursday. HEAVY RAIN & HAIL possible from 2pm-11pm. Flooding was reported in areas like Alexandra, Midrand, Bedfordview, Bryanston, Sandton, Edenvale and Johannesburg Central on Wednesday. A number of roads were flooded and had to be closed by emergency services. READ: More heavy rains expected for Thursday Warning 18:00-23:00 possible severe thunderstorms Ekurhuleni, Tshwane metropole, north-east part of Joburg metropole. Heavy rain, large hail The rain returned on Thursday afternoon with strong winds and hail in some areas of Gauteng, while people attempted to recover from flooding the day before. We're in for another big storm this evening in Joburg @storm_sa pic.twitter.com/ExNnJ4lQn1 Hail in the Eastpic.twitter.com/LZegnF1waC Something brewing in the skies pic.twitter.com/V8yAVY3Fv3 The Johannesburg Road Agency (JRA) called on road users to exercise caution and patience when travelling. A number of bridges have been reported flooded or collapsed as a result of yesterday`s heavy rain. R59 S after Kliprivier road headed to Vaal @TrafficSA pic.twitter.com/BHjajCe7Qm In a statement, the JRA said: "Flash floods occur within few minutes or hours of excessive rainfall. This may be caused by a dam failure or a severe and heavy rainstorm. "Nearly half of all flash flood deaths are auto- (car) related, so never drive or let anyone drive through flood waters. "Roads could be washed out under the strong currents. And if your car stalls in just two feet (61cm) of moving water, the water will have enough force to lift up your car and carry it away." Storm's brewing up. Linksfield Road at the moment pic.twitter.com/kHbLlKXaE8 Take a look at the rainfall obs yesterday. Perfect example of a cloudburst over SE Gauteng with 90mm in less than an hour. @eNCA pic.twitter.com/YLoVjHrtNe Mayoral Member Committee for Transport Nonhlanhla Makhuba urged motorists to obey road signs, traffic signals and road closures due to flooded bridges or unsafe driving conditions which are unsafe. Residents and road users are encouraged to report all road- and storm-related emergencies to 0860 562 874/ hotline@jra.org.za / twitter @MyJra or the JRA Find&Fix mobile app. eNCA