JOHANNESBURG - The Department of Water and Sanitation  released reserve water on Monday from the Free State’s Sterkfontein Dam to boost the nearly empty Vaal Dam in Gauteng. The department said the water released into the Vaal Dam will reach Gauteng in five days. “The plan is to release water before the Vaal Dam drops below 25 percent depending on the rate that the dam is dropping," said spokesman Sputnik Ratau. "The water will be released into the Nuwejaarspruit, which joins the Wilge River on the outskirts of Harrismith, flowing into the Vaal Dam. The release will be done in such a way to avoid flooding,” The moment everybody waited for. Water was released into the Vaaldam system from 09:10 this morning. Thank you Jan Aggenbach pic.twitter.com/ytGJ6glwXN Sterkfontein Dam, which stores reserve water supply, was being used to avoid a water crisis as dam levels across the country continued to drop due to a drought scourge that has ravaged most parts of the country, he said. READ: Residents warned to use water sparingly Owing to the drought, the department has already declared the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West disaster areas. The Vaal, which supplies various Gauteng municipalities and some of the neighbouring provinces, was at its lowest level of 26 percent, said Ratau. Although some parts of the country experienced rainfall in recent days, it was not enough to bring relief to the country’s decreasing dam levels. The water released from the country's water reserves Sterkfontein Dam, into the Vaal Dam will reach Gauteng in 5 days. Please #Savewater pic.twitter.com/1uLE3iNX6q In Johannesburg, authorities warned that level 3 water restrictions could be implemented if residents and businesses do not use water sparingly. Water utility Joburg Water has already implemented level 2 restrictions a few months ago, which prohibits users from watering gardens between 6am and 6pm. The use of hosepipes to wash cars and filling of swimming pools is also prohibited. The Ekurhuleni metro said from the beginning of this week it would ration water between 9pm and 5am. “Water rationing measures will initially be implemented every night starting from Monday, 7 November 2016. This means that there will be no water during this period in the affected areas. If these measures do not achieve the required 15 percent, the city will ration water during the day as well,” the metro said. Dit sous maar damvlak sak steeds #Middelburg https://t.co/HHL2KYgWbm @Dullsweather @stormchasingsa @storm_sa pic.twitter.com/2RDTIES7ho The Department of Water and Sanitation had instructed municipalities to curb water consumption by at least 15 percent. So far, about 3,000 business units and 41,000 households in Ekurhuleni have exceeded their allocated water usage. Penalties levied during October amounted to R1.7-million, city officials said. City of Tshwane water restrictions left residents of Soshanguve without water on Sunday. The levels of the reservoir supplying them had dropped dramatically due to high water use. The city said the water supply was cut off in the area to allow reservoirs to recover. Water tanks were delivered to affected areas in the township. African News Agency