NEWCASTLE - Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema made no bones on Monday that he believed that he had done nothing wrong and the charges levelled against him were simply an attempt by President Jacob Zuma to eliminate political opposition. Malema, addressing supporters after briefly appearing in the Newcastle magistrate’s court on two charges of violating the Riotous Assemblies Act of 1956, also made it clear that whites were not entitled to own any land in South Africa and that for now he was not calling for the slaughter of whites. He went further to claim that the British monarch Queen Elizabeth held title deeds to property in South Africa and that the country’s African National Congress-led government was too afraid to ask for the back. Earlier in court, Malema’s advocate, Tumi Mokwena asked for the matter to be postponed as he would seek to have the apartheid era legislation declared unconstitutional. The case against Malema was postponed to 7 December, but Malema would not be required to appear if an application had been lodged with the High Court. Earlier this year, Malema told supporters in Newcastle that whites could not claim ownership of any land because it belonged to blacks. He was accompanied by senior leadership of the EFF, including the party’s deputy president Floyd Shivambu and national spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Malema cracked jokes with the media as he awaited the start of proceedings. Speaking to supporters afterwards, Malema accused Zuma’s government of having no clear cut plans to address the plight of poor blacks. WATCH: Malema addresses crowds after court matter postponed “This country is still in the hands of the colonial masters. This country is still in the hands of white people. This country is controlled from London. "There are still pieces of land, here in KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and rural provinces, whose title deed is still owned by the Queen in London. The ANC, that you are wearing the t-shits of today, do not know how to take the title deed from the Queen in London.” In a clear dig at Zuma, Malema said he would be scared to go to prison for corruption, but that he would not be scared to be to go to prison in the fight for land. He said that the charges against him had been brought by the ruling ANC on behalf of white people. “White minorities be warned. We will take our land. It doesn’t matter how. It’s coming, unavoidable. The land will be taken by whatever means necessary.” Democratic Alliance spokesman Phumzile van Damme said the official opposition condemned Malema’s remarks about slaughtering white people. “This violent and threatening language has no place in our constitutional democracy.” African News Agency