JOHANNESBURG - Wits University is investigating a complaint of sexual assault. The incident allegedly took place at Wits Junction Residence in Parktown several weeks ago. In a statement released by the university on Thursday afternoon, it stated, "The matter is being investigated by the Gender Equity Office (GEO) in line with the university's sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape policy." The institution said it had worked with the complainant for the past few weeks and that the nature of the engagment was "confidential." "We urge everyone to respect the confidentiality and integrity of the complainant, who is our first priority," the statement read. Gauteng police spokesperson Lieutenant Kay Makhubela said no case had been opened regarding the incident. On Wednesday night, a group of almost 100 students confronted residence management about the incident, asking why nothing had been done. Student, Seadimo Tlale said the group complained that the student accused of rape was still on campus. Thokozani Manyange. Our manger: "If u knew the details of what happend u wudnt feel unsafe" Bcoz sometimes rape is safe. #RapeAtJunction pic.twitter.com/Crnfk3mF2v "We decided to go to Wits management and we woke them and asked them to remove him. We said we don’t want to live in the same residence as a rapist," said Tlale. In the video posted on Twitter, one student complained that the university management didn’t take the issue of rape as seriously as the Fees Must Fall protests. Confrontation with management. #RapeAtJunction pic.twitter.com/i868xtg6Pv A student can be heard complaining that if the accused rapist was protesting in the fees protests he would have already been arrested. Tlale said the students were frustrated with the university's response indicating that the accused wasn't a threat. Tlale said the student in question was escorted off campus, after which time the police arrived. "Next thing there were cops to disperse us, to protect him from us." Cops on scene. For US. Coz how dare we, in 2016 want justice for rape? #RapeAtJunction pic.twitter.com/BYkjUAveZy In another online video, Rob Sharman, head of residence at Wits university, is berated by students for saying that he didn’t have all the details on the incident, and for referring to the incident as sexual harassment and not sexual assault. Rob Sharman. An entire head of residences: "I do not have all the details" 3 weeks later. Cause its just rape you know.  #RapeAtJunction pic.twitter.com/NKDiK7e1rv Wits said in its statement that it had a zero tolerance approach to sexual violence and harassment. "We cannot achieve this without people laying complaints. We are aware that there is a rape culture in South Africa and that there are many victims that we do not know about. "We hope that the confidentiality with which we are managing this complaint serves as evidence that we will be responsive to every complainant in need. "We urge anyone who has been the victim of gender based harm at Wits to report these incidents immediately to the Gender Equity Office. "The Sexual Harassment Advisory Committee will ensure that anyone who has stood in the way of justice or minimised rape in any way will be held to account," noted the official statement. In 2013, the university faced another sex scandal when Tsepo wa Mamatu, a senior lecturer in the Dramatic Arts department was accused of sexually assaulting students over a period of six years. He was dismissed. eNCA