JOHANNESBURG – CEO of Touch Central and former MetroFM presenter Thabo “Tbo Touch” Molefe took to Twitter on Thursday, using the hashtag #DataMustfall, to call for lower prices from cellphone networks. He appealed to cellular providers to lower their costs within 30 days or he would move to the network provider that did make a change. @TouchCentralFM @iamtbotouch Dstv is next Dear @MTNza @Vodacom @CellC @TelkomZA If our government is listening your silence is unwarranted #datamustfall within 29 days or sooner The hashtag, now trending on Twitter, was sparked by a tweet Tbo Touch posted  to say he would be handing out data bundles to universities and colleges. He urged listeners to tune into "Touchdown',  a show on Touch Central on which the cost of data is discussed. On Twitter, Tbo Touch highlighted the benefits of lower data costs, specifically for students. This will enable every student to access textbooks online for those who can't afford it, stream lectures, #TouchCentral live #datamustfall Imagine watching your lecture on YouTube while download a text book on https://t.co/gbnObO7uql listening to #TouchCentral #Datamustfall  One listener on Twitter agreed with the Touch Central CEO and stated that "network service provides should not be greedy". #Datamustfall it won't hurt any networks operation, SA is the only country in Africa that has high cost for. Data https://t.co/DOXjc0zwGc Tbo responded saying that ‘SA is the only country in Africa that has high cost for data,' and tweeted a screen shot from an article from from Business Tech titled 'SA broadband 10 times more expensive than the UK' The trend #datamustfall resulted in the Chairperson of ICASA, Rubben Mohlaloga calling up Tbo to set up a meeting. We are making progress I just got off the phone with Chair of Icasa Mr Mohlaloga, he promised a meeting this week #datamustfall The Communication Workers Union(CWU) declared its support for the #datamustfall campaign. "We also call upon all progressives to rally behind this revolutionary call to put a stop to this daylight robbery that the working class in particular is subjected to," it said in a statement. The union asked Icasa to investigate data costs and quoted the United Nations law regarding the "human right to internet and access to information'. Tbo Touch stated on twitter that a meeting has been arranged with Icasa chair Rubben Mohlaloga. Icasa failed to respond to eNCA requests for comment. South Africans in agreement with #DataMustFall also shared on Twitter their frustrations with data costs. I swear MTN chows your data even when your phone is off. #datamustfall When you want to support the #datamustfall movement but you realise you don't have data... pic.twitter.com/dRwVbd5Gfa Even music producer Sketchy Bongo joined in the conversation. How do we as artists expect people to watch our videos, download our songs and like our posts with such high data costs.#datamustfall !!! These are some of the data costs for a monthly pre-paid bundle on some of South Africa's cellular networks Vodacom
	R9 for 15MB
	R12 for 30MB
	R29 for 100MB Cell C
	R11 for 30MB
	R20 for 60MB
	R29 for 100MB MTN
	R12 for 20MB
	R25 for 50MB
	R33 for 100MB - Karen Mwendera eNCA