JOHANNESBURG - After days of delays, Gauteng Education MEC Panyazi Lesufi announced the online registration was live, shortly after 2pm on Tuesday. He said he was excited to address the issues after having been locked up since 1am to ensure that all errors were ironed out. Earlier, Lesufi took to twitter to apologise to parents, who had been left frustrated by delays with the online school registration system, which had crashed for a second time. Lesufi said the system had been piloted last year to find a way to avoid parents having to queue for hours outside schools to register their children. The system also had the added benefit of helping to give an indication of the number of teachers required at each school. Lesufi admitted the department was caught by surprise by the number of parents who tried to log onto the site on 11 April, which far exceeded expectations and resulted in the system crashing. He said a cellphone company had been requested to facilitate an increase in capacity, which would allow for 20,000 hits per second. The system finally came online on Tuesday afternoon at 2:30 pm, but it wasn't without some problems. In the first ten minutes of the registration system going live 5,035 parents registered their applications. Lesufi said the latest delay in the online registration process for grade 1 and grade 8 pupils was due to a problem with GPS coordinates and addresses. "The entire software had to be reprogrammed. We changed the system so that parents can apply through the name of the school," said Lesufi. Lesufi said the first-come first-serve rule would no longer apply. "If you stay or work within 5km of that school, or if there is a sibling in the school, you qualify," he said. Parents need to select three schools. If the first choice is full they will be directed to a second or third school. The system would also allow the Gauteng Department of Education to manage resources more effectively. "That's exactly the point. We will see that Bryanston High School is overloaded, then we can get extra mobile classrooms," said Lesufi. A queue of more than 30 people was waiting outside the department's head office in Commissioner Street from early Tuesday morning. "I've been waiting since 7:30am when they opened," said Beverley Stiglingh from Bellavista, Johannesburg south. She said after trying to register at an Internet cafe and failed attempts to sign in from her phone, she was frustrated. "Why are they trying this at the last minute, when we have to register our children in April?" Cheryl Douman, another parent from Bellavista said that after she submitted her application online last week, it gave her two schools in Steeldale. "We want Forest Hill because its right on our doorstep. What if you don't have means for transport for your children, and you're unemployed. How will you do that?" said Douman. "If I have to take my child to Steeldale, I have to leave earlier and I can't walk there, I have to take transport," said Stiglingh. Nonhlanhla Mtshali from Katlehong missed work to wait at the Department of Education's offices on Tuesday. Lesufi said parents who don't have internet access can visit local libraries, municipalities and even local schools for assistance in their applications. "We have dispatched 70 laptops and 70 3G cards to schools so they can assist with applications," he said. The system will also allow more fairness and help more disadvantaged children to attend better schools. "This will ensure equitable access to our schools because all our schools belong to all of us," said Lesufi. People have until midnight on 1 June to register their applications. The applications will be pending until 24 July, when they will be confirmed. eNCA