DURBAN - Rush hour traffic was brought to a grinding halt in Durban’s Umlazi township on Friday afternoon as municipal bus drivers simply abandoned their buses at vital intersections. Traffic into the city’s second largest township was gridlocked as eThekwini me‎tro police attempted to remove the buses. The Mangosuthu Highway was blocked at one point with police having to divert traffic. Rocks and rubble were thrown onto the highway near the municipal bus depot. Police officers were seen driving the buses back into the depot. A water canon and riot police were engaged in a stand-off with bus drivers, who are angry that they have not been paid since November. Earlier this week, the municipality issued a statement ‎saying that 238 employees of the municipal bus service, operated by the company Transnat, had been paid directly by the municipality. ‎Transnat had failed to pay its employees’ December salaries and bonuses. The municipality reached an agreement with Transnat to pay salaries directly to the employees in a bid to avert a strike. ‎However, most of the employees remain unpaid. “I haven’t been paid since November,” said a driver, who did not want to be named. The bus service was sold by the municipality in 2003 to Remant Alton Land Transport for R70-million. In 2008 the municipality spent R405-million buying back the buses from troubled Remant Alton. The company continued to operate ‎the service owned by the municipality for another year. In 2009‎ Transnat CC was appointed to run the service, but that too has been less than satisfactory, with the municipality having to inject extra funding into the service. Transnat, which is owned by taxi boss Mandla Gcaba – a nephew of President Jacob Zuma – has struggled to keep the service operating and has also been sued by the municipality. “We are‎ afraid of this man. Once you talk to a journalist, you know what will happen,” said another driver who declined to be named. Another driver from the Umlazi depot said: “Look at my bank statement. It’s all red. The bank is going to possess my car.” He also accused Transnat of not paying money into the workers’ provident fund administered by Liberty Life. “I phoned them. They [Liberty] ‎did not have my name or ID number. If I have a crash the bus is insured. I am not. Where is that money? It is a lot deeper than salaries. Every worker is not covered,” he said. Another claimed that the municipality was aware of the problems but did not talk to the drivers. He said that towards the end of every month the depot was running out of diesel. “People are scared to speak out. There is a culture of threatening people. It’s run like the taxi industry,” he said. The drivers were meeting on Friday evening to determine a way forward. Durban - RT @ErrandsMaster @trafficsa Umlazi on #totallockdown. Unpaid @ethekwinim transport bus drivers dispute!! pic.twitter.com/YFsrRaaacH African News Agency