JOHANNESBURG – The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) said on Monday it stood by police officers to charged in connection with the 2012 shooting at the Marikana mine in North West that claimed 44 lives. “We want to state categorically that we stand by those accused police officials and if the South African Police Service (SAPS) does not represent them, we will. The principle of innocent until proven guilty should be observed in this matter,” the union said on Monday. Providing an update on steps taken by government departments to implement the Farlam commission of inquiry’s recommendations, the Presidency said on Sunday that a number of senior police officers had been charged or were being investigated for various offences following the conclusion of the Farlam investigation. Warning statements had been obtained from senior members of the SAPS who were involved in the operation at Marikana during the wildcat strike, the Presidency said in a statement. On 16 August, 34 people, mostly mineworkers, were shot dead by policeat the platinum mine.In the preceding week, 10 people had been killed, including two police officers and two Lonmin security guards. The Presidency said that, among others, a criminal case was opened against a major-general for allegedly defeating the ends of justice. He was accused of having failed to exercise command and control at “scene two” of the shooting. belatedly submitting his own firearm for investigation by the ballistic experts, and for the diversion of paramedics under his protection to “scene two” instead of them giving medical attention at “scene one”. A case was opened against a brigadier for allegedly defeating the ends of justice by failing to secure recordings of an extraordinary meeting of SAPS management. An attempted-murder case had been opened for some police officers in respect of the striking miners who were hospitalised with gunshot wounds on 13 August 2012, as per the directive from the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), the statement said. Investigations found a major-general who was responsible for overall command of the SAPS operation at Marikana to have been remiss in his conduct when dealing with the vents of 13 August that led to the deaths of two police officers and three strikers. He also allegedly ignored the advice of experienced public-order police officers on dealing with the crowd control and contravened the SAPS standing order number 262 relating to crowd control. “The officer faces four counts of murder for the deaths of two police officers and two of the strikers, and six counts of attempted murder in respect of the five injured miners and one police officer. “He also faces charges of defeating and/or obstructing the ends of justice, as well as contravention of section 6 (2) of the Commissions Act by falsely testifying at the Farlam commission and denying his role in ordering the police to fire teargas at the strikers,” the Presidency said. READ: Senior police officers to be charged over Marikana Popcru said it hoped the outcome of the Police Ministerial Transformation Task Team’s review of police operational standards, which would assist officers in future operations. “We remain hopeful that the Police Ministerial Transformation Task Team’s review of policies and operational standards that disadvantage police officers’ working environment, living conditions and career progression will be adequately addressed in improving the overall functionality of this important component, and that mining companies across the board increase their efforts in improving the needs of their employees. We currently have a situation where almost all mining profits are transferred abroad while worker conditions are not prioritised.” The Marikana commission – chaired by retired Judge Ian Farlam – was appointed on 26 August 2012 to probe the deaths of 44 people during the illegal, violent strike at Lonmin’s Marikana platinum mine earlier that month. The commission’s report and recommendations, which included an inquiry into former police commissioner Riah Phiyega’s fitness to hold office, were released to the public in June 2015. African News Agency