Generations actor, Menzi Ngubane address the media on August 26, 2014 at the Market Theatre in Newtown, South Africa. Generations actors tell the media their side of the story, especially about their salaries. DURBAN – Veteran South African actor Menzi Ngubane broke down in tears and was inconsolable on Saturday as he described his friendship with gospel musician Sfiso Ncwane who died earlier this week. Ncwane’s life was celebrated at a packed Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban where fellow musicians, government representatives, church leaders, and community members gathered for his funeral. Ncwane succumbed to kidney failure at the age of 37 earlier this week. Ncwane’s wife Ayanda was by his side at the Fourways Life Hospital in Johannesburg when he died on Monday. The musician had been taken to hospital the previous night. Ngubane, who has a leading role in TV soapie Isibaya, described how he struck up a friendship with the musician when he first arrived in Johannesburg to try his luck in the music industry in the early 2000s. He was was speaking on behalf of close friends and entertainment industry colleagues. “I first knew him around 2001 when he first came to Johannesburg and we connected easily even when we were seeing each other for the first time. He told me he had always followed my career on TV and asked me to help him record an album,” Ngubane said. “Later in the year, another friend called Max, who is also late, connected Sfiso with Tshepo Nzimande [of Zuzumuzi Productions] and Nzimande put him in the studio to record his first album. That’s how his career took off.”  #NcwaneFuneral - The formal program has ended - Ncwane will now be taken to Lalakahle cemetery where he will be laid to rest pic.twitter.com/Y3TQ5qxQPk  In an emotional farewell, Ngubane had to pause during his address to compose himself as emotions got the better of him. “When he finished recording, Sfiso came to me and told me he had nothing to wear for the photo-shoot of his album’s sleeve. I said ‘it’s okay Sfiso, I will see what I can do for you’. When I arrived home, I selected one of the new navy blue suits I had and right there I decided to give it to him,” Ngubane said. “I went to meet him and gave him the suit. He looked at me and thanked me for giving him the suit, promising to take it to the dry cleaner before returning it to me. But I said ‘no, I am giving you this suit as a gift and I want you to go from the first album and become a renowned artist because I know where you come from’.” Ngubane said he could not believe the news that Ncwane was no more when he first received SMSes and calls while he was on set, until poet Mzwakhe Mbuli confirmed it. “Hamba kahle Ncwane, hamba kahle qhawe,” Ngubane said as tears rolled down his face. READ: Hundreds remember Sfiso Ncwane Ncwane’s biggest hit Kulungile Baba went multi-platinum and sold more than 350,000 copies, was nominated for Crown Awards Song of the Year, and won the South African Music Awards Record of the Year in 2013, the first ever for a gospel artist.  #NcwaneFuneral - The renowned and legendary Rebecca Malope with her tribute to Ncwane whom she calls his son pic.twitter.com/hDjJHR9w83  Two memorial services have been held for Ncwane – one in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal at the eThekwini Christian Church on Thursday and another at the Grace Bible Church in Soweto, Johannesburg, on Friday. African National Congress treasurer general Zweli Mkhizwe and ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairman Sihle Zikalala were among the pallbearers who carried Ncwane’s white casket to the stadium on Saturday. Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, SABC group executive of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng, and various KwaZulu-Natal MECs were also among those present. Ncwane will be buried at Heroes Acre in Chesterville‚ Durban, later on Saturday. He is survived by his wife and their two children Ngcweti and Umawenzokuhle, as well as three children from a previous relationship, including a daughter Nqobile.