JOHANNESBURG – The president of the  Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu), Joseph Mathunjwa, blasted President Jacob Zuma for announcing the implementation of the Farlam commission’s recommendations without consulting affected families and Lonmin mine workers. Mathunjwa said that  before announcing government’s implementation plan, Zuma and his office had never consulted relevant stakeholders. The Presidency announced on Sunday that the government was ready to pay compensation for the victims of the August 2012 violence at Lonmin’s platinum mine at Marikana in North West. “It is disappointing that the president continually releases statements without consulting relevant parties, especially on compensation, which we are not clear on what exactly is he proposing,” Mathunjwa told reporters at a briefing in Johannesburg. “This is failing the affected families. The president should have consulted all parties through his office and put forward his proposal, allowed everyone to sleep over that and then come back to him with their input … but that did not happen.” READ: Police union stands with charged Marikana cops The Amcu president claimed that the government was undermining black workers. “They still have a tendency of deciding for people without consulting with them. Amcu is a majority union at Lonmin, it has all the structures from the branch to regions, and they were never consulted. It is that historical mentality about a bunch of black workers, where you just give them what you think is good for them,” said Mathunjwa. “It is the fourth time that the State just decides to release a statement without consulting parties involved. We do not even know what the quantum that the President is proposing is. So should we take all this seriously if he has not consulted relevant stakeholders? I don’t know.” The South African Police Service has instructed its attorneys to make offers of payments in full settlement of claims where quantification was complete and not under criminal investigation, the Presidency said. Furthermore, warning statements had been obtained from senior members of the police who were involved in the operation at Marikana during the wildcat strike. A few high-ranking officers had been charged and some were under investigation. African News Agency