CAPE TOWN - Parliament's inquiry into the SABC board is to go ahead after the Western Cape High Court on Friday dismissed an application to stop it. Board chairman Mbulaheni Maguvhe, who brought the urgent application, was ordered to pay legal costs. The public broadcaster’s legal team had argued that the SABC had a right to protect sensitive commercial information. READ: Cabinet hits out at SABC board A summons issued to the board chairman to produce documents before MPs conducting the investigation was not valid as the documents “don’t belong to the board”, Ismail Jamie, SC, said. “The SABC has proprietary interest and ownership of those documents,” Jamie told the court, referring to summons served on Maguvhe to produce several documents relevant to the inquiry, including the controversial deal giving pay-TV operator MultiChoice access to the SABC’s archives. Judge Siraj Desai was not convinced, saying: “What you are doing is placing obstacles…” Jamie said what the broadcaster wanted was not to place hurdles before the parliamentary ad hoc committee that would conduct the probe, it actually wanted to participate in the inquiry. “We want to come to the party and not prevent the party from happening,” he said. On the documents requested from Maguvhe, Jamie insisted the board chairman was not the owner of the documents. “He’s entitled to see the documents, but he’s not entitled to hand over the documents because he’s not the owner of the documents,” he argued. “We are entitled to protect our own commercial interests.” Desai was not convinced, replying: “No you are not. The SABC is an asset of all South Africans.” WATCH: Inquiry into SABC board recommended Jamie said at the very least the SABC wanted to be able to present the documents “in camera”, although MPs have said they were only in favour of individuals and not institutions testifying behind closed doors. Earlier, Maguvhe’s legal counsel, Thabani Masuku, told the court that MPs sitting on the ad hoc committee and their political parties had already made negative statements about Maguvhe, who has refused to step down despite a request from the portfolio committee on communications to do so. “You are already stuffed. There’s no way you can walk into a committee of persons who hold this view that they are going to be independent….they already held that view,” Masuku said. He insisted the committee members would not give Maguvhe a fair hearing. “People have already announced on the conduct of this individual… because they will say he has failed to discharge his fiduciary duties,” he contended. Maguvhe also insisted, Masuku said, that his dignity was at stake, to which Desai said: “To be the last man standing is hardly a very dignified position.” African News Agency