PARLIAMENT - Professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe would have to be summonsed to appear before the Parliamentary inquiry into the SABC board on Tuesday. Maguvhe and the public broadcaster's legal representatives were no-shows on Thursday afternoon when they were due to make submissions to the committee. Maguvhe led a walkout shortly after Wednesday's proceedings began, saying he won’t be part of a process that had a foregone conclusion. WATCH: I was bullied, belittled and disrespected - SABC's Maghuve The sole remaining board member Maguvhe, had demanded documents in braille. The commission argued that the documents had been handed over, and the SABC had indicated they'd be printed for the chair, who is blind. Proceedings went ahead anyway, with the auditor general highlighting management failures at the public broadcaster. It’s unclear if Maguvhe will attend proceedings. The committee has threatened to summons him, if necessary. However, on Wednesday, the SABC’s last standing board member’s objections to documents not being converted to braille didn’t stop the ad hoc committee from starting its work. WATCH: Parliament ad hoc SABC committee fires back at Maguvhe The SABC came under fire, with the auditor general flagging the public broadcaster’s poor performance management, failure to follow recruitment processes and fruitless expenditure. Meanwhile, the Public Protector complained that the SABC undermined the authority of her office. Busisiwe Mkhwebane said, "The SABC board, instead of implementing our remedial actions, they went further to request the legal opinion and they sent us the Mcunu legal opinion without engaging with each remedial action. As the manager is saying, they were justifying all the remedial actions. Instead of implementing, they were justifying why they could not implement.” WATCH: Public Protector testifies at SABC board inquiry Members of Parliament questioned the role of the Minister of Communications. The inquiry continues, with testimony from three former SABC board members up next. eNCA