PARLIAMENT - The Ad Hoc Committee on the SABC held a media briefing on Wednesday. It responded to the SABC’s earlier media briefing after they walked out of the proceedings. WATCH: Public Protector testifies at SABC board inquiry The Parliamentary Portfolio Committee rejected claims that the SABC is not publicly funded and therefore is not accountable to government, something SABC's Hlaudi Motsoeneng said earlier in the day in their own media briefing. The committee chairperson, Vincent Smith said, "Mr Motsoeneng seems to think that the SABC doesn't get money from government therefore it is not accountable to government." "The SABC is 100% owned by South Africans, government is a 100% shareholder, therefore the notion that they don't get money from us so they don't understand this 'hulabaloo', is a sign of someone who does not understand how the public broadcaster works." They are the public broadcaster, they are accountable to the public, we represent the public and we will speak for the public, and to come up with the notion that we don't give them money, or that we give them a small percentage, is something we don't  quite understand." Smith fired back further at the SABC Board Chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe. Maguve accused the committee of discrimination because documents were not provided in Braille. "The professor says that he is not going to appear before this committee where his rights as a blind person have been violated. We want to reject that with the contempt it deserves." "Their argument is that the professor feels that he needs braille to be able to participate. We deliberately today asked the AG have you ever presented in Braille, they said never, we asked the PP... We asked the PC they said never, so this is a delaying tactic and we must call it for what it is." The ad hoc committee has been tasked with examining the SABC board’s fitness to hold office. READ: SABC board member in court to halt parly probe But Wednesday's proceedings may be put on hold, amid yet another attempt to stop the inquiry from going ahead. The only remaining board member, Mbulaheni Maguvhe, has instituted an appeal against Judge Siraj Desai’s judgment. Last week, Maguvhe unsuccessfully tried to obtain a court interdict to stop the investigation. Desai dismissed his application, saying he’d give reasons at a later date. eNCA