An eNCA special feature in association with FCB Africa. Celebrating 90 years of iconic advertising. As FCB Africa marks 90 years of iconic advertising, we reflect on a dozen memories from our alumni and current FCB-ers that are smart, naughty or just inspiring.  "I’ll never forget Mike Bosman (then FCB CEO) cutting off the client service guys’ ties when they wore them to the bar in FCB Cape Town’s offices." - Shani Ahmed  "The lunch we had after the Vodacom pitch (after we had worked on the account for almost 21 years). We killed ourselves and knew we had lost, but it felt so good to be with fellow fighters, proud and happy together despite our loss." - Rita Doherty  "The Bar on Fredman was where we made lots of memories, especially when Grant Sithole used to have a pomet (remember that hairstyle). Some of my closest friends today I met at that bar." - Sibusisu Sithole  "Working with so many really talented people who dragged the best out of you. Gaby Bush, John Bush, Hughie Bush, Iaan Bekker, Thomas Oosthuizen, Klasie Wessels, Edo Folli, John Sinclair, Nkwenkwe Nkomo. Boy, those guys are legends in an industry that can't remember yesterday!" - Harry Herber  "My favourite memories include 24 hour deadlines, nervous brainstorms, bad reviews, drinks, fun and games, great ideas, present and sell, helipad braai, win hearts and minds, FCB Family." - Neo Mashigo "Toyota viewed a cut never even discussed in pre-prod. They liked it. I asked if they wanted to see the other cut, they said ‘No thanks’. That’s trust." - Gaby Bush "Every time Nkwenkwe Nkomo got up to make a speech and reminded us why we did what we did at the place that we did it." - Grant Sithole "Coming back to FCB after a two-year stint as brand manager at KFC." - Ashley Rametse "The one night when two creative colleagues called a client an a@@hole in the men’s loo just to hear the loo flash and the same client walk out of the cubicle. Another, when we were on the 18th floor of Sandton City, using a shopping trolley to move a colleague who passed out from too much wine, to the parking garage for her husband to collect her." - Thomas Oosthuizen "I had to leave my first FCB Christmas party to attend the client off-line edit approval of my very first Vodacom commercial. The then MD, John Sinclair, called me over, got up and kissed me on the top of my bald head to wish me good luck for the task ahead. I always saw it as a blessing on, what turned out to be, a journey of a lifetime. He passed away on a trans-Atlantic flight soon after, before seeing the effect of his humbling gesture." - Francois de Villiers "FCB Joburg being named Agency of the Year by Adfocus and AdReview respectively in 2014. That is my most awesome memory." - Jerry Mpufane "Difficult questions are always so simple. The day Abo Abramovitz threw his typewriter (!) from the 19th floor of the Sandton Office Towers. It really made a huge impression on me, but probably an indelible impression on someone’s BMW bonnet!" - Iaan Bekker