CAPE TOWN - SABC Board Chairperson, Professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe told Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Communication that he walked out of the Parliamentary inquiry last week because he felt his rights were disregarded. "It was because my legal team requested an opportunity to address the committee in relation to my concerns. There were 4 main concerns. Namely: that I will need legal representation. That I will be given documents and that I will be able to cross-examine witnesses as well as to get witness statements. The legal team couldn’t raise those issues and I had to walk out to consult them. That was in no way disregarding parliament but I felt that as a visually impaired person, my rights were not being respected by this very house,' Maguvhe said. The Chairperson of the Committee Vincent Smith responded thus "Thank you very much prof. Maybe we should say that if there’s anything untoward from our side, we’ll apologise But, I think we were within our rights. I think we must also accept the points that you make. We will in our deliberations as a committee, look at all these things together. I don’t think there should be a pronouncement today on whose wrong or right today. But at least it has been out there in the open.” Maguvhe was giving his testimony before the committee on Tuesday. He also said that he thinks he voted in favour of keeping Hlaudi Motsoeneng on in his position as COO at the SABC and that Montsoeneng had the backing of former board chairperson, Ellen Tshabalala. “The argument put forward by the then chairperson, convinced most of us including myself that the COO was doing a sterling job. Hence, I have voted for. I was convinced that he was doing a sterling job.” Maguvhe told the ad hoc committee that he is unsure in what capacity he's giving testimony. He was responding to a question on the costs of his court application to have the parliamentary inquiry halted. "This is precisely what confuses me, and my legal team also wanted to get clarity on this one. Whether I am here in my personal capacity or in my capacity as the chairman of the board," he said. Click on the below tweets for live updates on Maguvhe's testimony or watch the parliamentary proceedings here. Tweets about #SABCinquiry AND(FROM:@ajnarsee since:2016-12-13 until:2016-12-14) eNCA