JOHANNESBURG – Cheer up kids! There’s a lot of fun to be had if you are planning to remain in Gauteng this festive season. From a giant floating obstacle, course to massive Christmas lights shows, the province has a lot of fun activities to offer. Here’s a list we think you should try: 1. Be a warrior on water The StokeCity WakePark in Midrand has introduced the South Africa’s only floating obstacle course which has a series of inflatable slides, runways and ramps. “It’s like being a contestant on 'Total Wipe Out' (the famous TV game show) but much less intense,” notes Kyle Holtzhauzen from WaterPlaySA, the official Wibit AquaPark Agents in South Africa. In addition to the obstacle course, there’s also wake boarding, knee-boarding and cable skiing. 2. Enjoy a magical festival of lights Several large shopping malls in the north, west, east and south of Johannesburg and are offering their own special Christmas lights shows. Emperors Palace in Kempton Park is hosting their annual Garden of Lights from 2 December to 8 January 2017 from 19h00 to 22h00 daily. There will also be a few funfair rides and there is a chance to get a photo taken with Santa Claus, but only on selected days because Santa has a lot of malls and casinos to visit. All proceeds from ticket sales will be donated to charity. The new Mall of Africa in Midrand is hosting the Fantasy of Light from 24 November to 24 December. The Waterfall park opens at 6pm and a live show directed by Lizz Meiring. 3. A trip to the theatre There are a number of Christmas shows happening around Johannesburg this December. The Joburg theatre is staging a new pantomime from Janice Honeyman, Robin Hood and the Babes in the Wood. In Maboneng, POPArt and AltEye productions is hosting the December Children’s Theatre Festival from 13 – 17 December. Two shows will be performed. Magical Myths: How spider got her name and other stories includes shadow theatre, songs and puppetry. Ntombi Dreams Big is about an eight-year-old girl from Diepkloof with big dreams and includes song, games and physical theatre. 4. Fun, games and cooking fun The Yeesh indoor play and activity centre in Woodmead charges R180 for full day entry during the holidays. Every hour there is a different activity including baking, face painting, pizza making, games, treasure hunts, arts and crafts. There are also rates per hour for drop-in visits. The Little Cooks Club is also running special holiday classes in Centurion and Boksburg where kids can learn how to make a mini pizza snowman, chocolate beetroot muffins and Christmas smoothies. Each lesson is about two – three hours and is suitable for children age two to six years old. 5. Take bus tour of Johannesburg The City Sightseeing hop on hop off bus tour of Joburg is the perfect way to learn about the history of the city and see some important landmarks. The tour has a special narration option for kids. A new Green Tour of Johannesburg has recently been launched, it showcases Rosebank, Zoo Lake and Munro drive in Houghton. #AsktheRedBusSA: Did you know kids aged 4 and younger (max. of 2 per paying adult) travel for free on the #RedBusSA? https://t.co/B9TEPKPEtv pic.twitter.com/jYgsuBQ5hX eNCA