JOHANNESBURG – Hundreds of people, including fans, friends, family and fellow gospel artists, on Friday attended the memorial at Grace Bible Church in Pimville, Soweto for award-winning gospel artist Sfiso Ncwane. The memorial at Grace Bible Church was the second for Ncwane, who succumbed to kidney failure on Monday at he age of 37. The first was held at eThekwini Christian Church on Thursday in Ncwane’s home province. When Ncwane passed away his wife, Ayanda, was by his side at the Fourways Life Hospital in Johannesburg. He had been taken to hospital the previous night. Despite the sombre mood inside the church, some mourners were moved by the many songs of worship from a variety of gospel artists, who turned up in numbers to remember their colleague. They sang along and swayed to the music. All the while an artist was painting a portrait of the late award-winning singer. Ncwane’s son, Ngcweti, was inconsolable as he leaned on his mother’s shoulder during the memorial service. Brother-in-law Lungile Gumede said it was sad that Sfiso had died so young. He made a pledge to assist Ncwane’s family in whatever way possible. “Sfiso was like a brother to me not an in-law. To you Ayanda my sister, we are here to help you raise the kids,” Gumede said. Ncwane was revered in the industry and was famous for hits such as “Phakama Nkosi yeZulu” and “Kulungile Baba” which won the South African Music Awards Record of the year in 2013 and was nominated for Crown Awards Song of the Year. WATCH: Paying tribute to Ncwane Ncwane’s cousin, Moja Ngcobo, tried to speak but he couldn’t say much. “We were not ready for his passing, it was all so sudden,” was all Moja managed to say before he broke down and had to be led from the podium to his seat. Ncwane on Saturday failed to show up at the Kaya FM Soul Inspired concert at Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens in Roodepoort, where he was scheduled to perform. He had made an appearance in Limpopo on Saturday, where he told fans he was not feeling well. Fellow gospel artist, Pastor Solly Mahlangu expressed shock at the sudden passing of Ncwane. “Ayanda we are sorry …” Mahlangu said. Ncwane will be laid to rest at the Heroes Acre in Chesterville‚ Durban on Saturday He is survived by his wife Ayanda and their two children Ngcweti and Umawenzokuhle, as well as three children from a previous relationship, including a daughter Nqobile. African News Agency