PRETORIA - The South African government’s decision to withdraw from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) is unconstitutional and must be invalidated, the Democratic Alliance told the High Court in Pretoria on Monday. WATCH: DA continues ICC fight “The only way that this problem can remedied is for this court to declare that executive has acted unconstitutionally and to declare its decision invalid. Failing that, the decision to withdraw by the executive, taken without the concurrence of Parliament will remain in place and will have effect,” said Advocate Stephen Budlender, SC, representing the DA. Budlender told a full bench of three High Court judges presiding over the matter that Parliament had adopted the Rome Statute into South African law, and therefore only the National Assembly could lead the process of withdrawing South Africa from the body. READ: International rights body condemns SA's ICC withdrawal “The debate in this case is not about whether there is power to withdraw [from Rome Statute], there must be. It is what the Constitution implies, it’s about who the implied power is conferred on. That power, we submit, is conferred on Parliament and not on the executive,” said Budlender. South Africa believed it was unfairly treated by the ICC when it consulted the court over the visit of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir – a fugitive from ICC justice – to South Africa in June last year. Pretoria asked the ICC to exempt it from its requirement to arrest Bashir because it said it should enjoy immunity as a sitting head of state attending an African Union summit. But the ICC rejected this request and demanded that South Africa arrest Bashir, which it did not. READ: Bashir smuggled out of SA: affidavit South Africa has complained that the ICC did not give it a fair hearing and that there is confusion within the court itself about the obligations of member states to arrest sitting heads of state of countries which are not members of the ICC – like Bashir. In October, Justice Minister Michael Masutha announced that the South African government had informed the United Nations of its intention to withdraw from the ICC. “Written notice to withdraw from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court has been submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations in accordance with article 127(1) of the Rome Statute of the ICC. The withdrawal will take effect one year after the Secretary-General has received the notification,” Masutha told a media briefing in Pretoria at the time. The withdrawal of South Africa from a court which it helped found, will come into effect from October 19, 2017. The South African government was found by South Africa’s own Supreme Court of Appeal to have failed to uphold South African law by not arresting Al-Bashir when he was in South Africa last year. African News Agency