JOHANNESBURG – The dawn of 2017 is little more than a fortnight away and while many Gauteng inhabitants will have fled to the coast, those staying home have no shortage of jolly options for New Year's Eve. Here is eNCA’s selection of the five top parties and dining specials in Gauteng: 1) Vilakazi Street NYE Festival, (Orlando West, Soweto) Soweto’s prime spot will be alive with action from midday through to the early hours of New Year's Day.  Cost varies from R100 general admission to R1,000 for VIP access. 1/3 @KhuliChana @KayGizmSoul on that Mahamba Yedwa tip ---- #VilakaziNYE #VSNYE pic.twitter.com/qaXbzFMV3i 2) Randlords : A New Year's Bash to Remember (Braamfontein, Johannesburg) With an exciting line up of renowned DJs such as Lady Lea, Essential Groove, Paul Bingham, Stallion and So Schway you're sure to have a blast. "Dress to Impress” is this year’s NYE theme on the rooftops of South Point Towers in trendy Braamfontein. Expect a free cocktail and canapes upon arrival and to dance the night away, welcoming in the new year in style. Tapas and snack food are available on order. Tickets start at R350. Tickets now on sale for @Randlords rooftop New Year's Eve party, definitely the best place to see the fireworks https://t.co/G5TghiwcA3 pic.twitter.com/hp3J3nwzzn 3) Arcade Empire : Hello New Year's, Goodbye 2016 (Pretoria) If soft rock and EDM music tickles your fancy and the likes of Desmond and the Tutus, PHFAT, Kyle Watson and Bongani Zulu fill your soul with joy then Arcade Empire is the place to be. Early-bird tickets are R120, and at the door R160. 4) Parc Fermé (Sandton) For a fine dining experience, enjoy a five-course dinner for R495 per person. Options include baked lobster tail served with potato gnocchi, pea shoots and a fenugreek broth; stuffed beef tenderloin; and strawberry tartlets with crème patissiere. Enjoy the surroundings with an exquisite cocktail at @parcfermerest modern outside area. #relax #restaurant pic.twitter.com/CToFrjIlfl Join us for a #NewYearsEve Menu with Oysters & Champagne! For bookings contact: +27 11 245 4846 or email: parcferme@parcferme.co.za pic.twitter.com/YeMkMeFtNZ 5) Black Bamboo (Ashlea Gardens, Pretoria) For a grand experience of live music and a five-course dinner Black Bamboo offers a night to remember, with unlimited bottles of Méthode Cap Classique, all for R650 per person. .@TheBlackbamboo1 is the perfect spot for a client lunch to end off the year. We offer the very best in South African fine dining. pic.twitter.com/7jboLqLShy – Alexandra Willis / eNCA