JOHANNESBURG – Wits University student leaders addressed the media on Friday, after the institution's general assembly, set to get under way, was postponed. STATEMENT: POSTPONEMENT OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY pic.twitter.com/etB4bNNhcB Wits management had invited students, staff members and alumni to a general assembly, in the hope of reaching a consensus about resuming the academic programme on Monday. The university warned that failure to do so could see the university shutting its doors for the rest of the year. The institution's last general assembly was held more than 10 years ago. The university has only held 10 similar meetings in its 120-year history. “It is exceptionally rare that a general assembly of the university is called. It is an extraordinary event, convened on only the gravest of occasions,” said a communique from Wits, which invited all concerned to attend. “The role of the general assembly is to adopt resolutions reached by consensus in the university. Wits is holding a general assembly with the aim to unite all constituencies in a joint stance on an issue of national importance, in this case focusing on access to quality higher education.” READ: Heated confrontations on Wits campus Protests for free education, which have affected 17 of the country’s 26 universities, started more than two weeks ago, soon after higher education minister Blade Nzimande announced that these institutions could hike next year’s fees by a maximum of eight percent. The fee hikes will, however, not affect poor students and those whose parents earn less than R600,000 a year. On Tuesday – after running battles between students and police – Wits management agreed to postpone the resumption of the academic programme and to hold a general assembly on Friday. The university management, which has told students that it cannot afford free education for all students, wants the academic programme to resume on Monday. The university has warned that if lectures do not resume on Monday it will not be able to save the academic year. However, protesting students insist the institution must remain closed until their demands for free education are met. eNCA