PRETORIA - Sars deputy director of law Vlok Symington has laid charges of kidnapping, indimidation and robbery against the Hawks over an alleged incident at Sars headquarters in Pretoria last week. He claims he was held against his will in the Sars boardroom by Hawks officers and the bodyguard of Sars Commissioner Tom Moyane last week. One of the officers was Bridgadier Nyameka Xaba. They were allegedly trying to extract an affidavit from Symington in their investigation of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. LISTEN: Audio of alleged Sars hostage drama (Warning - occassional strong language) In the audio clip, Symington can be heard saying, "Yolandi can you phone security, I'm being held against my will" And in the video Symington can be heard speaking to Moyane "But can I open the door...why not...why can't I open the door..." At the heart of the matter is the 2009 memo written by Symington regarding the early retirement of Ivan Pillay, who's been charged alongside Gordhan. In Symington’s opinion, there was no technical reason why Sars could not reappoint Pillay, even after he'd received a pension payout. Gordhan's fraud charges relate to this pay-out. WATCH: SARS hostage incident ‘totally unacceptable’: Gordhan The memo is part of the evidence filed by the Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law in their application to have charges against Gordhan dropped. The Hawks reportedly wanted details from Symington, about that memo. They apparently first approached Sars lawyers to get Symington to reply to several questions, but attorney David Makapela allegedly refused to get involved for ethical reasons. Makapela's response to Sars Commissioner Tom Moyane was allegedly forwarded to Symington accidentally. In the boardroom, Xaba then allegedly tried to prevent Symington from leaving with the documents. WATCH: Moyane says he is not part of a plot Symington has also filed a complaint with the Independent Police Investigative Directorate. This could have major implications for the NPA's case against Gordhan. eNCA