PRETORIA - The current standoff amongst students, universities management and government will only be mended when all parties inclusively convene to discuss the salient fees issues, the Higher Education Parents Dialogue (HEParD) said on Wednesday. Chairperson Irvin Phenyane said his organisation had a meeting with Dr Cassius Lubisi, director-general in the Presidency, requesting a multi stakeholder conference on behalf of the protesting students. “We had the meeting this morning at the Union Buildings. Remember, on Monday the students left that higher education stakeholders meeting unsatisfied because they felt they are not being listened to. It seems now that the parties have reached a threshold of listening to one another. Our role is to get the parties to speak,” said Phenyane after the meeting. “We jumped all protocols and we will do anything to save the 2016 academic year. When we met the DG [Lubisi] we had to get a recognition that there is a misunderstanding and that the students will have to get a hearing of the President [Jacob Zuma].” READ: Government can't afford free higher education for now: Gordhan Phenyane said during their meeting with Lubisi, there was mutual appreciation that this matter is urgent. “The DG is looking into setting up that meeting for the students,” said Phenyane. HEParD is seeking the symposium between Zuma and representatives of the South African Union of Students (Saus). “The students are from different SRCs (student representative councils) but they have one union which is Saus. There are from 26 SRCs and we have met them as one union,” said Phenyane. He said however the violence accompanying the student protests was deplorable. READ: Public Protector sympathises with protesting students “In the fair, legitimate demand for free quality education for the poor, we cannot burn the very same institutions that must provide that education. In which country has people caused damages worth a billion rand and no one is brought to book? We are starting with a ceasefire, that is why yesterday [Tuesday] we joined the students at With University when their colleagues were arrested,” said Phenyane. He also pointed that members of the South African Police Service could handle the student protests differently. “The students were protesting and the police’s poor training leads them to harass the students. The students were protesting peacefully to the Hillbrow police station to demand the release of their colleagues but we saw some police officers taking out their guns, ready to shoot. They were bloodthirsty, they didn’t even want to talk to us,” said Phenyane. “But also on the other hand, student leadership needs to take responsibility. They need to know who is leading what. Students can still protest peacefully without burning down our schools. This violence is unnecessary. It is taking us backwards. Our parents, we are calling for a ceasefire.” African News Agency