JOHANNESBURG - The United Kingdom is the UFC’s third most favourite foreign region after Brazil and Canada, and it seems to be a market of increasing relevance with its broadcast deals with BT Sport and BBC3 and 17 events to date. It returns this weekend for the third time to Manchester, the hometown of its Middleweight Champion, Michael Bisping as he defends his belt against his perennial nemesis from Temecula, California, Dan Henderson. At UFC 100 in Las Vegas after a particularly acrimonious season coaching opposite each other on The Ultimate Fighter, Henderson knocked-out Bisping with a thunderous overhand right and followed-up with another bomb to the already unconscious Brit. The loss has irritated Bisping greatly ever since, especially since Henderson has been retrospectively seen as competing unfairly having used TRT (Testosterone Replacement Therapy) during the time of the fight. In fact, since TRT was banned from the UFC in 2014, Henderson has now just 3 wins with 6 losses, an inverse win/loss ratio to his record prior to the ban. At the age of 46, it seems the sun has already set at the twilight of his career, but with one last hurrah on the horizon as it glints on Bisping’s gold within reach this Saturday. It’s easy to forget with so much at stake, how much both of these men have contributed to the sport. Henderson, an Olympic wrestler, Strikeforce Champion (Light Heavy) and Two-division Pride Champion (Welter and Middle) has fought the alumnus of MMA and written his legend status large in the annuls of the sport. A UFC belt has always eluded him, but as the oldest fighter in the UFC he seems intent on spoiling Bisping’s homecoming party at the Manchester Arena. Michael Bisping is single-handedly responsible for the popularity of MMA in Great Britain having been the first Pom in the UFC after winning the third season of its reality television series, The Ultimate Fighter over ten years ago. A controversial reputation amongst the American keyboard warriors infecting small-town forums and backwater blogs was earnt not because he talked more smack than apple-pie fighters but because he had the sheer audacity for being a foreigner. Despite losing to a series of juicers, Bisping was able to string together enough wins to keep himself in contention until a title shot came along, as it did so spectacularly against Luke Rockhold at UFC 199 as a late replacement for an injured Chris Weidman when he won the belt by knockout in the first round and shocked the world. And now, the Mancunian is out for revenge in his first title defence in his backyard, looking to cement his legacy as a world champion against the man who vanquished him so publicly over seven years ago. He’ll be fighting a man who seeks a fairytale climax to a legendary career by winning a belt he’s never buckled by beating the brash brit Bisping behind enemy lines. For all UFC204 coverage on #TheClinch including previews, reviews and behind-the-scenes coverage follow me @SimonStephensUK eNCA